Add Mullvad Browser (#2109)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/desktop-browsers.md

      "@type": WebPage
      url: "./"
---
These are our currently recommended desktop web browsers and configurations for standard/non-anonymous browsing. We recommend [Mullvad Browser](#mullvad-browser) if you are focused on strong privacy protections and anti-fingerprinting out of the box, [Firefox](#firefox) for casual internet browsers looking for a good alternative to Google Chrome, and [Brave](#brave) if you need Chromium browser compatibility.

If you need to browse the internet anonymously, you should use [Tor](tor.md) instead. We make some configuration recommendations on this page, but all browsers other than [Tor Browser](tor.md#tor-browser) will be traceable by *somebody* in some manner or another.

## Mullvad Browser

!!! recommendation

    ![Mullvad Browser logo](assets/img/browsers/mullvad_browser.png){ align=right }

>     **Mullvad Browser** is an official open-source fork of the Tor Browser with Tor network integrations removed, designed to provide Tor Browser's anti-fingerprinting browser technologies to VPN users. It is developed by the Tor Project and distributed by [Mullvad](vpn.md#mullvad), and does **not** require the use of Mullvad's VPN.

Reviewer: Is Mullvad Browser technically a fork of Tor browser? It just says it was developed in collaboration with the Tor project on their Github.

      "@type": WebPage
      url: "./"
---
These are our currently recommended desktop web browsers and configurations for standard/non-anonymous browsing. We recommend [Mullvad Browser](#mullvad-browser) if you are focused on strong privacy protections and anti-fingerprinting out of the box, [Firefox](#firefox) for casual internet browsers looking for a good alternative to Google Chrome, and [Brave](#brave) if you need Chromium browser compatibility.

If you need to browse the internet anonymously, you should use [Tor](tor.md) instead. We make some configuration recommendations on this page, but all browsers other than [Tor Browser](tor.md#tor-browser) will be traceable by *somebody* in some manner or another.

## Mullvad Browser

!!! recommendation

    ![Mullvad Browser logo](assets/img/browsers/mullvad_browser.png){ align=right }

>     **Mullvad Browser** is an official open-source fork of the Tor Browser with Tor network integrations removed, designed to provide Tor Browser's anti-fingerprinting browser technologies to VPN users. It is developed by the Tor Project and distributed by [Mullvad](vpn.md#mullvad), and does **not** require the use of Mullvad's VPN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Mullvad Browser** is a collaborative effort between Mullvad and the Tor Project. You can think of it as Tor Browser without the Tor network. It aims to provide Tor Browser's anti-fingerprinting browser technologies to VPN users. It does **not** require the use of Mullvad's VPN.
```

For the strongest anti-fingerprinting protection, we recommend using Mullvad Browser in conjunction with a [VPN](vpn.md), whether that is Mullvad or another recommended VPN provider. Mullvad Browser does not have built-in VPN connectivity, nor does it check whether you are using a VPN before browsing, your VPN connection has to be configured and managed separately.

### Private Browsing Mode

Mullvad Browser operates in permanent private browsing mode, meaning your history, cookies, and other site data will always be cleared every time the browser is closed. Your bookmarks, browser settings, and extension settings will still be preserved.

This is required to prevent advanced forms of tracking, but does come at the cost of convenience and some Firefox features, such as Multi-Account Containers. Remember you can always use multiple browsers, for example, you could consider using Firefox+Arkenfox for a few sites that you want to stay logged in on or otherwise trust, and Mullvad Browser for general browsing.

### Mullvad Leta

> Mullvad Browser comes with DuckDuckGo set as the default [search engine](search-engines.md), but it also comes preinstalled with **Mullvad Leta**, a search engine which requires an active Mullvad VPN subscription to access. Mullvad Leta queries Google's paid search API directly (which is why it is limited to paying subscribers), however because of this limitation it is possible for Mullvad to correlate search queries and Mullvad VPN accounts. For this reason we discourage the use of Mullvad Leta, even though Mullvad collects very little information about their VPN subscribers.

Reviewer 2: Mullvad Leta is limited to 50 searches per 24 hours:
```
How many searches can I perform?

We have a limit on 50 searches (or credits) per valid Mullvad VPN account per 24 hours.

Each time you search for a phrase you use up 1 of the 50 credits.

Each time you select next page you use up 1 of the 50 credits.

If you select ”Only search in cache”, which is the default option, 0 credits are used.
```
https://leta.mullvad.net/faq

Author: I don't think we need to add additional detail because this is not a recommendation or even a full evaluation of Leta, it is just an acknowledgement that Leta *exists* in this browser, and we *discourage* its use over the search engines we actually recommend. If we were to add Leta as a recommended _search engine_ in the future we could re-evaluate, but that seems unlikely because we currently don't like any sort of accounts being attached to search queries.

Like [Tor Browser](tor.md), Mullvad Browser is designed to prevent fingerprinting by making your browser fingerprint identical to all other Mullvad Browser users, and it includes default settings and extensions that are automatically configured by the default security levels: *Standard*, *Safer* and *Safest*. Therefore, it is imperative that you do not modify the browser beyond the default [security levels](https://tb-manual.torproject.org/security-settings/). Other modifications would make your fingerprint unique, defeating the purpose of using this browser. If you want to configure your browser more heavily and fingerprinting is not a concern for you, we recommend [Firefox](#firefox) instead.

### Anti-Fingerprinting

**Without** using a [VPN](vpn.md), Mullvad Browser provides the same protections against [naive fingerprinting scripts](https://github.com/arkenfox/user.js/wiki/3.3-Overrides-%5BTo-RFP-or-Not%5D#-fingerprinting) as other hardened browsers like [Arkenfox](#arkenfox-advanced)+Firefox or [Brave](#brave) can provide. Mullvad Browser provides these protections out of the box, at the expense of some flexibility and convenience that other hardened browsers can provide.

> ==For the strongest anti-fingerprinting protection, we recommend using Mullvad Browser in conjunction **with** a VPN==, whether that is Mullvad or another recommended VPN provider. When using a VPN, Mullvad Browser creates a "crowd" of other users for you to blend in with, which is the only way to thwart advanced tracking scripts, and is the same anti-fingerprinting technique used by Tor Browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==For the strongest anti-fingerprinting protection, we recommend using Mullvad Browser in conjunction **with** a VPN==, whether that is Mullvad or another recommended VPN provider. When using a VPN with Mullvad Browser, you will share a fingerprint and a pool of IP addresses with many other users, giving you a "crowd" to blend in with. This strategy is the only way to thwart advanced tracking scripts, and is the same anti-fingerprinting technique used by Tor Browser.
```

> Note that while you can use Mullvad Browser with any VPN provider, other people on that VPN must also be using Mullvad Browser for this "crowd" to exist, something which is more likely on Mullvad VPN compared to other providers, particularly this close to the launch of Mullvad Browser. Mullvad Browser does not have built-in VPN connectivity, nor does it check whether you are using a VPN before browsing, your VPN connection has to be configured and managed separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that while you can use Mullvad Browser with any VPN provider, other people on that VPN must also be using Mullvad Browser for this "crowd" to exist, something which is more likely on Mullvad VPN compared to other providers, particularly this close to the launch of Mullvad Browser. Mullvad Browser does not have built-in VPN connectivity, nor does it check whether you are using a VPN before browsing; your VPN connection has to be configured and managed separately.
```

### Arkenfox (advanced)

!!! tip "Use Mullvad Browser for advanced anti-fingerprinting"

>     [Mullvad Browser](#mullvad-browser) now provides stronger anti-fingerprinting protections than Arkenfox by default, and does not require the use of Mullvad's VPN to benefit from these protections. For most internet browsing it is a better choice than manually hardening Firefox with these tweaks. Arkenfox still has the advantage of being much more flexible, and allowing per-site exceptions for websites which you need to stay logged in to.

Author: ```suggestion
    [Mullvad Browser](#mullvad-browser) provides the same anti-fingerprinting protections as Arkenfox out of the box, and does not require the use of Mullvad's VPN to benefit from these protections. Coupled with a VPN, Mullvad Browser can thwart more advanced tracking scripts which Arkenfox cannot. Arkenfox still has the advantage of being much more flexible, and allowing per-site exceptions for websites which you need to stay logged in to.
```

https://github.com/privacyguides/privacyguides.org/commit/b2b547ecb7250ce9262b45f5fd724e22e16b6d29#r107706130
